

SUMMARY:

Network Management Professional with 10 years of experience.
Strong customer and employee relations building, supervisory and documentation experience.
Experienced with LAN, WAN, WLAN, VLAN, VPN, VoIP, IPSec, SSL, IPv6 protocols.
Professional, progressive and proactive.

TECHNICAL SKILLS:
Network Equipment: Cisco Switches, Routers, Nexus, Unified Call Manager, PIX, ASA and CheckPoint Cisco WLAN Controllers AirMagnet Wireless and Fluke Networks analyzing tools Zenoos, NetScout, CiscoPrime, SolarWinds, Cacti, Nagios
Applications: MS Office Suite Word, Excel, PowerPoint, SharePoint, Visio, Project Mgr Server SQL Server TFTP/32, Win Merge Bash Shell(Linux) Active Directory, LDAP and Radius
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:
Senior Network Engineer 
Confidential - Alameda CA 
Responsibilities:

Assigned to Network Start-up and Program Support teams for 90 locations based in US.
Provide network support for WAN, WLAN, LAN, MAN, Data Center and new and existing sites.
Provide Network Evaluation and Designs for existing and new sites.
Provided VoIP Design and Implementation Plan.
Design, build and implement WAN, LAN, WLAN networks for programs depending on location, size and employee requirements.
Perform WLAN firmware upgrades, add AP Licenses, AVC Protocol Packs and implemented HA failover for enterprise.
Reconfigured WLAN Controller to support MS Skype for Business and Voice/Video Conferencing.
Design and implement IPsec VPNs from site to Corporate Data Center using Cisco ASA Firewalls and troubleshoot if needed, working directly with site personnel.
Collaborate with MPLS, ISP providers, network equipment resellers, cabling and Audio/video personnel to meet scheduled delivery requirements.
Troubleshoot network issues and provide resolutions to restore services and applications as needed.

Senior Network Engineer
Confidential - San Francisco CA
Responsibilities:

Assigned to CREFTS ( Corp. Real Estate, Finance, Travel and Safety) and Campus Network Teams.
Provide Network Evaluation and Designs for existing and new sites.
Design, build and implement WAN, LAN for wired, wireless and VoIP networks depending on location size and employee requirements.
Implemented first LAN deployment using Arista 7304 Routers in SF Landmark, Spear Campus.
Redesign SFO Offices Wireless Network to improve end user experience:
Upgrade to Cisco 3702 model for over 150 WAPs on 8 floors in SF Landmark, Stewart and Spear Campus.
Reconfigure WLAN Controller to support roaming, MS Lync (Skype for Business) Calls, Apple and MS PCs.
Migrated from 2.4 GHz to 5 GHz band to increase speed and stability of Wireless.
Perform firmware upgrades, add AP Licenses and implemented HA failover for enterprise.
Design and implement IPsec VPNs from site to Data Center using Juniper Gateway Firewalls and troubleshoot if needed, working directly with site personnel.
Design, configure and implement IDS and IPS Solutions for local Internet at new and existing sites.
Collaborate with MPLS, ISP providers, network equipment resellers, cabling and Audio/video, construction and electrical vendors to deliver network requirements on time and per Autodesk network standards.
Provide and implement network wired and wireless configurations based on best practices and Autodesk standards.
Provide and maintain all site information for changes at existing and new sites, update network drawings and contact info.
Provide Network designs and manage implementations for MLPS Circuit and Network equipment and configuration upgrades and updates.
Design, Implement and convert sites from digital phones to VoIP phones. Add QoS to router and switch configurations.
Provide Design and Implementation plans for new equipment for upgrades and refreshes.
Design and implement QoS configurations to support VoIP, MS LYNC, Outlook, Apple iOS and Autodesk applications.
Troubleshoot MPLS, ISP, VoIP, LAN, WAN and WLAN Network issues as needed.
Mentor Junior Engineers and on-board New Network Staff.

Senior Network Engineer 
Confidential - Oakland CA
Responsibilities:

Provide Network Support for 65 sites in the Matson Global Network. MPLS, BGP, VoIP, WLAN and wired.
Evaluate current WAN, LAN, WLAN Networks and provide recommendations for improvement.
Designed and implemented WLAN Controller HA Failover and Configuration changes to support Wireless Roamingin CORP Offices.
Move Layer 3 Routing from MPLS WAN Routers to Internal LAN Routers to separate LAN and WAN Traffic.
Provide new configurations for Routing and QoS policies to improve end user experience.
Configure and install Cisco Nexus 5K and 3850 switches at sites.
Design and implement Network upgrades for existing sites.
Provide troubleshooting and support for network issues, follow up and provide long term solutions.
Install CiscoPrime Network Monitoring Solution and provided to IT Support Teams.
Provided configurations and support for new equipment and circuits as needed.
Provided configurations to Verizon Network and Security Teams on managed WAN Routers and Firewalls.

Onsite Engineer 
Confidential . - Walnut Creek CA
Responsibilities:

Provided onsite support for NetScout Equipment and Network Consulting for the Kaiser Enterprise Network of over 600 Medical Offices, 37 Hospitals and 7 Data Centers.
Set up and managed Cisco Routing/Switching (Nexus 7k, 5K AND 2K, 3750, 3650) and Cisco UCM/Video Lab for NetScout Suite testing and validation of KP Voice and Video QoS templates. Provided feedback and recommendations as needed.
Consulted KP Wireless Team regarding Cisco best practice for Wireless upgrades new and existing sites.
Provide VoIP performance analytics to KP VoIP Team and recommendations for improvement.
Configure and qualify Juniper Routers and Switches for Proof of Concept in KP Lab and using NetScout tools for validation.
Interacted with Kaiser Project Managers, KP Site Support and NDEs to provide support and guidance for implementations, troubleshooting and new projects involving NetScout Monitoring Equipment.
Provided reports and consultation for conversion to MPLS Cloud connectivity at sites.
Provided reports for L2 and L3 network support and worked with KP teams to provide solutions.
Provided reports for validation of F5 Load Balancer configurations. Recommended changes as needed.
Provided QoS reports for KP Voice/Video teams and attended weekly meetings to discuss solutions.
Assisted KP Security Teams using NetScout Suite to detect and determine point of origin for suspicious network activity.
Use Kaiser Remedy Ticketing System as needed. Opening CRQs, Work Orders and Incidents.
Submitted and performed changes on regular basis as well as a member of Change Review Board.
Attended Change Management Review meetings weekly to review submitted change requests and determined severity and verified steps to prevent or minimize outages.
Verified Network Performance before and after Router and Switch upgrades. Recommended changes as needed.
Provide /support for Kaiser Personnel in use of NetScout Suite.

Network Engineer Team Lead 
Confidential - Sacramento CA
Responsibilities:

Test, validate and document the replacement of Cisco 3750-X, 3750V2, 3570E switches and UCM Voice equipment on EIGRP, VTP (Transparent, Client and Server) Network at Sacramento State University Campus.
Provided configurations for new equipment to be installed.
Verification of VoIP QoS, L2 and L3 connectivity on replacement switches to match predetermined standards.
Troubleshoot connectivity to core and connecting switches, internet connectivity and DHCP.
Configure access ports and add/modify port configurations as requested by Sac. State Personnel.
Manage 4 person replacement teams, coordinating with campus personnel.
Provide configurations for VoIP on access ports and Trunk Ports. QoS, speeds, security, etc.

Network Engineer 
Confidential - Rancho Cordova CA
Responsibilities:

Responsible for managing Network connectivity and performance of Central Rancho Cordova CA site and 13 Branch locations in various states across U.S. supporting 4500 users.
Overseen configurations, design changes and troubleshooting of L2 and L3 switches, routers, VoIP, VPN and wireless in Enterprise Level Network using ATT/MPLS to connect sites (WAN) and EIGRP for distribution and access layer connectivity (LAN).
Managed replacement of 450+ Cisco 3750, 6509, 6513, VoIP phones, Unified Call Manager, ASA and CheckPoint on Rancho Cordova Site and Enterprise Branch Locations.
Provided Network designs and roll-out plans for successful upgrade without compromising Network Performance.
Managed Data Center installation of Nexus 7010, 5020, 2232 and 6500, 4500, 3700, 2900 series switches.
Engaged with ATT/Verizon to adjust MPLS CoS package to match QoS ps established at WAN Routers, improving VoIP and Video quality and overall network performance.
Improved monitoring using SolarWinds to utilize existing Net Flow, Configuration Backup and implement scripts to perform upgrades and IOS updates, and perform global configuration changes.
Configured and implemented Cisco Wireless VPN 5500 Controllers on Enterprise Network.

Network Engineer
Confidential - Sacramento CA
Responsibilities:

Install Cat5, Cat6 data, Fiber and audio, video cabling, CCTV and Tandberg video camera systems.
Install VoIP, Call Manager as per customer requirements, configure and monitor QoS and adjust as needed.
Maintain Security Protocols: IPSec, SSH WPA2/WPA2 Enterprise on networks.
Manage Call Manager as needed for new and existing VoIP users. (Add users, create accounts, remove users)
Install, configure and maintain Cisco, Juniper, Avaya switches, servers, audio and Tanberg devices on networks for clients.
Install and maintain Network Monitoring Tools based on network size. (Nagios, WhatsUpGold, Solarwinds, Zyion Traverse)
Provided Network designs based on size, location and type of environment.
Configure routing protocols for networks based on network size, topology and amount of users. (OSPF, EIGRP, RIP, VTP)
Troubleshooting, maintenance updates and upgrades of existing devices and network.
Install and maintain Wireless connectivity for clients.
Configure servers; install applications (ex. Microsoft Office Suite, Google Mail, Messenger, POD as needed.)
